What is YUM? 
YUM (Yellowdog Updater Modified) is an open source command-line as well as graphical based package management 
tool for RPM (RedHat Package Manager) based Linux systems. It allows users and system administrator to easily install, update, 
remove or search software packages on a systems. It was developed and released by Seth Vidal under GPL (General Public License) 
as an open source, means anyone can allowed to download and access the code to fix bugs and develop customized packages. 

YUM uses numerous third party repositories to install packages automatically by resolving their dependencies issues. 
  
Pasted from <http://www.tecmint.com/20-linux-yum-yellowdog-updater-modified-commands-for-package-mangement/>  
  
  
  
1. Install a Package with YUM 
yum install firefox 
  
yum -y install firefox 
  
2. Removing a Package with YUM 
yum remove firefox 
  
  
3. Updating a Package using YUM 
yum update mysql 
  
4. List a Package using YUM 
yum list openssh 
  
5. Search for a Package using YUM 
  
yum search vsftpd 
  
6. Get Information of a Package using YUM 
yum info firefox 
  
7. List all Available Packages using YUM 
yum list | less 
  
8.List all Installed Packages using YUM 
 yum list installed | less 
  
  
9. Yum Provides Function 
yum provides /etc/httpd/conf/httpd.conf 
  
10. Check for Available Updates using Yum 
  
 yum check-update 
  
11. Update System using Yum 
 yum update 
  
12. List all available Group Packages 
 yum grouplist 
  
13. Install a Group Packages 
  
yum groupinstall 'MySQL Database' 
  
  
14. Update a Group Packages 
  
yum groupupdate 'DNS Name Server' 
  
15. Remove a Group Packages 
  
yum groupremove 'DNS Name Server' 
  
16. List Enabled Yum Repositories 
  
yum repolist 
  
17. List all Enabled and Disabled Yum Repositories 
  
yum repolist all 
  
18. Install a Package from Specific Repository 
  
yum --enablerepo=epel install phpmyadmin 
  
19. Interactive Yum Shell 
  
 yum shell 
  
19. Clean Yum Cache 
  
 yum clean all 
  
20. View History of Yum 
  
yum history 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
